- Feature Name: blog
- Start Date: 2018-08-22
- RFC PR: (leave this empty)
- Rust Issue: (leave this empty)

# Summary
[summary]: #summary

Host a blog at blog.rust-embedded.org and use it for our newsletters and
announcements.

# Motivation
[motivation]: #motivation

So far we have been posting our newsletters and announcements to
https://users.rust-lang.org but it would be nice to have them on a place that's
*ours* and that would be a blog.

An advantage to having a blog is that it would be easier for readers to browse
through our newsletters and announcements. Right now, they get lost in the
stream in of new content posted to the users forum. Also, with a blog we can
provide RSS which is something our readers have requested before.

# Detailed design
[design]: #detailed-design

We'll create a new repository named `blog` that the resources team will be in
charge of developing and maintaining.

The content for the blog will be authored as markdown files, and the blog will
be hosted as a static web site on https://blog.rust-embedded.org . The blog
posts will *not* have a comments section. The exact mechanism by which the
markdown files will be converted into a static site will be decided by the
resources team.

The WG newsletters and announcements will be posted on this blog. The resources
team will be in charge of reviewing all the new content before its published.

Finally, the newsletters directory in this repository will be moved into
the blog repository.

# Drawbacks
[drawbacks]: #drawbacks

- Readers would lose the ability to comment on newsletters and announcements.
  But, if we wish to, we can post a link to blog posts on reddit or the users
  forum and use that space to receive comments.

# Alternatives
[alternatives]: #alternatives

- Continue posting our newsletters and announcements to
  https://users.rust-lang.org.

# Unresolved questions
[unresolved]: #unresolved-questions

None
