- Feature Name: msrv-2020
- Start Date: 2020-11-14
- RFC PR: (leave this empty)
- Rust Issue: (leave this empty)

# Summary
[summary]: #summary

This RFC proposes an update to the [current MSRV policy], and is an
alternative to the earlier proposal [#449]. Some of the RFC text is copied
from that earlier proposal.

This proposal suggests a significantly reduced MSRV guarantee: all WG crates
must build on the _latest stable Rust release_ at all times, and it is
recommended that their main branches are checked to always build on stable via
CI on both pull requests and regularly scheduled CI runs.

[current MSRV policy]: https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg/blob/8eb6488fdb16e92e70b074acc2fcf249b3edc70b/ops/msrv.md
[#449]: https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg/pull/449

# Motivation
[motivation]: #motivation

<!-- Why are we doing this? What use cases does it support? What is the expected outcome? -->

As part of the push to take [foundational crates to 1.0] releases, it has
become necessary to be more exact on our guarantees to support versions of the
Rust compiler. This discussion [has been contentious] in the past, sparking
significant discussions in many meetings.

In particular, it has been necessary to balance the (somewhat opposed) concerns of:

1. Some users may find themselves stuck on old versions of the compiler, due to company restrictions, slow moving distribution/package managers, or regulatory concerns.
2. We maintain these crates on a volunteer basis, and our time is limited to focus on maintenance

Our current MSRV policy has been found to have significant flaws around how
dependencies are managed. Since many WG crates depend on non-WG crates, we
cannot control the MSRV policy of those dependencies without investing
additional effort to vendor or fork those crates. Consequently, a non-breaking
update to a dependency might violate a published crate's MSRV.

So far, the WG has received very little feedback from any users who rely on the
relatively old MSRV, and so most of their use cases have been hypothetical.
Conversely, there are many features in later Rust releases we would like to be
able to use in crates, and the additional maintenance effort involved with
checking our crates and all their dependencies support an older MSRV is
non-trivial.

The previous proposal to update our MSRV resolved the ambiguity in dealing with
dependencies, but in a fashion which has downsides of its own and was far from
unanimously supported. Consequently, this RFC proposes a much simpler MSRV
policy.

[foundational crates to 1.0]: https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg/issues/383
[has been contentious]: https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg/issues/427

# Detailed design
[design]: #detailed-design

<!--
This is the bulk of the RFC. Explain the design in enough detail for somebody familiar
with the language to understand, and for somebody familiar with the compiler to implement.
This should get into specifics and corner-cases, and include examples of how the feature is used.
-->

1. Crates released by the Embedded WG must compile on the most recent stable
   Rust release at all times. If a dependency releases an update which causes a
   published crate to no longer build on the most recent stable release, a new
   version must be released to resolve the issue.
2. Individual crates may specify a more restrictive MSRV if the crate's team
   agrees to do so, as long as it is at least as restrictive as this policy.
3. It is permissible for specifically-indicated features of a crate to not
   build on stable, to support the use of nightly-only features. All features
   not specifically indicated in the README or documentation must build on
   stable.

It is recommended that all crates use a CI system to check that a PR does not
break building on stable Rust, and schedule regular CI jobs to check that a
newly released stable Rust has not broken the crate's build. Crates may also
consider regular CI runs against the latest released version of the crate.

# How We Teach This
[how-we-teach-this]: #how-we-teach-this

<!--
What names and terminology work best for these concepts and why?
How is this idea best presented—as a continuation of existing Rust patterns, or as a wholly new one?

Would the acceptance of this proposal change how Rust is taught to new users at any level?
How should this feature be introduced and taught to existing Rust users?

What additions or changes to the Rust Reference, _The Rust Programming Language_, and/or _Rust by Example_ does it entail?
-->

We will need to take the following actions:

1. Update the [MSRV Operational Notes](./../ops/msrv.md)
2. Ensure all crates test the current Rust stable release. It is believed that
   this is already the case, so no further action would be required.
3. Update our CI examples and crates to start running scheduled CI tests.

# Drawbacks
[drawbacks]: #drawbacks

This updated policy reduces the burden on Embedded WG maintainers and
contributors, but at the expense of users who previously relied on our
conservative MSRV policy. Those users may no longer be able to build
Embedded WG crates on older versions of Rust, including our foundational
crates which are widely used in the embedded ecosystem.

Such users could continue using old versions of crates, fork and maintain a
version of those crates with a lower MSRV, or contribute to the crates to
help maintain a lower MSRV if possible.

# Alternatives
[alternatives]: #alternatives

1. Make no change to our MSRV policy, despite the shortcomings that have become
   apparent around the management of dependencies.
2. Accept [#449], clarifying how we manage dependencies while maintaining
   a stricter MSRV policy.
3. Accept this proposal, but replacing "latest stable" with "latest-but-one
   stable" or similar. This provides a slightly more conservative level of MSRV
   support for users who can upgrade Rust version but perhaps cannot do so
   overnight.

[#449]: https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg/pull/449

# Unresolved questions
[unresolved]: #unresolved-questions

At the moment, there are no open unresolved questions.
