# Embedded WG

- [Coordination repository](https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg)
- [Milestone issues](https://github.com/search?q=org%3Arust-embedded++is%3Aopen+milestone%3A2018&type=Issues)
- Meetings: Tuesdays 8 PM Europe/Berlin time - #rust-embedded @ irc.mozilla.org
# Attendance

**Write your GH username or IRC handle here!**

- japaric
- disasm
- therealprof
- thejpster
- korken89
- cr1901
- posborne


# Reminders
- [RFC] MSRV policy https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg/pull/304
- [Action required] Highfive: https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg/pull/307#issuecomment-461757411
- [RFC] Discord channel https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg/issues/305
# Agenda
## Updates from Rust All Hands

**Embedded Rust in 2019**

“Productivity” — other teams shows words like “confidence, maturity, practicality, stability”

**Requests to the Rust teams**

**T-compiler**

[x] (1) fix: https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/42863 (== const generics?)


[x] (2) stabilize: `const fn`s that have trait bounds, e.g. `const fn new() -> Mutex where T: Send`

https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2632


[ ] (8) feature: assert in `const fn` produces a compiler error


[x] (11) fix: infinite loops with no side effect lower to an abort instruction - https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/28728


[x] (12) feature: Language support for types with storage size of less than 1 byte - https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2581


[x] (13) feature: support for AVR - https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg/issues/3

**T-libs**

[x] (3) stabilize: `core::mem::MaybeUninit` - https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/53491


[x]  (4) std::io in libcore/liballoc - https://github.com/rust-lang-nursery/portability-wg/issues/12


[x] (7) stabilize: `core::arch::arm` - https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg/pull/184


[x] (15) math support in core - https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/issues/2505


[ ] (16) slimmer core::fmt

**T-cargo**


[x] (5) fix https://github.com/rust-lang/cargo/issues/5730 ("std" feature in build scripts break no_std crates)


[x] (6) Stabilize RFC 2282 "Cargo profile dependencies" - https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/48683


[x] (9) std-aware Cargo
  

**T-crates.io**

[x] (10) Improve crates.io or create separate site for no_std crates
    - e.g. search within a category
  

**T-lang**

[ ] (14) Stabilize async/await

**Embedded WG work session**


# Action items
- japaric: create wg issues to discuss not yet awesome embedded rust, patterns book and “lib blitz”


----------
# Notes from Rust All Hands
## **Embedded Rust in 2019**


| Audience      | WG-embedded and anyone interested |
| ------------- | --------------------------------- |
| When          | Wednesday 9:00 AM - 10:00 AM      |
| Where         | Snow                              |
| Meeting Style | Brainstorming                     |

**Deliverables**

[ ] Embedded Rust 2019 theme and slogan

**Agenda**

- Brainstorm theme and slogan for embedded Rust in 2019 (20 minutes)
- Brainstorm theme-related goals (20 minutes)
- Identify and prioritize high ROI work items (20 minutes)

**Minutes**


- Last year was “Embedded Rust on Stable”
- We want to set up a theme for this year
- Mentioned on IRC:
  - Grow the ecosystem
  - Don’t maintain all the crates
  - Support the community
    - Give good guidelines on how to write APIs
  - Requests from the community:
    - USB Libraries (Device/Host)
      - Some people are working on this
        - STM, EFM, Nordic
    - RTOS
      - Pure Rust
      - Bindings
    - Libraries
      - Lib Blitz
        - Try to get important crates to 1.0 quality
        - Lots of these don’t exist already
        - Create a team focused on that?
          - Prioritize things?
        - Not everyone has the same hardware
          - Some vendors have expressed interest in sponsoring hardware
          - Figure out how to distribute hardware
          - Kick people off in person?
        - More advising, less development (from the WG perspective)
- Most improvement for the least amount of work
  - Lib Blitz
    - Review, assist API design
    - Embedded Showcase - reviewing apps instead of libs
      - Goals: Guidelines for application development
  - Documentation (“Embedded Rust By Example”, “Patterns Book”)
    - How to write a HAL crate
    - How to write an application crate
    - How to write a no_std crate
  - Identifying missing gaps - “Not Yet Awesome Embedded Rust”
    - Missing patterns
      - DMA
      - Interrupt Data Sharing
    - Tooling:
      - Post-Build Script
    - Libraries
      - logging
      - Unit conversion
      - Algebra
      - making them visible
    - Less about us doing the above, more about flagging them
    - Intermediate level documentation
    - What can they expect from us?
      - API design support?
      - Taking conversation off IRC, onto github when they need help with design?
    - Making examples more visible (in the patterns book?)

To discuss further / prioritize in the next meeting:

- Not yet awesome embedded Rust
  - get this ready for Oxidize impl days
- Patterns book (+ links to examples)
- Lib blitz
- Focus on embedded-hal (1.0?)

Theme: “Productivity”


----------
## **Embedded WG requests to the Rust teams**


| Audience      | WG-embedded + representatives of the compiler, libs and Cargo teams |
| ------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| When          | Wednesday 10:00 AM - 11:00 AM                                       |
| Where         | Snow                                                                |
| Meeting Style | Discussion                                                          |

**Deliverables**

[ ] Guide: how to nominate and track T-compiler / T-libs / T-cargo issues

**Agenda**

- Intros (5 minutes)
- nominating and tracking issues (25 minutes)
- T-compiler requests (10 minutes)
- T-libs requests (10 minutes)
- T-cargo requests (10 minutes)

**Minutes**

T-compiler

- Talked to Oli about how to raise issues to compiler team (following comments from Nagisa):
  - Nominated label on Github (I-Nominated, T-Compiler)
  - Prioritized by the compiler team (Triaged Weekly - Thursday PM 16:00 CET, Zulip)
  - P-Medium is the void. (P-High or the Highway)
  - Embedded is likely to request features
    - Will end up in P-Medium, but will be assigned
    - We can ping them every 2 weeks or so reasonably
  - File an issue
    - Nominated/Renominate
    - 

T-libs

- Triage meeting every 2 weeks
  - Alex drives that meeting
  - First focus is team decisions, such as around stabilization
- If we want an API stabilized, we should:
  - If ready, just needs a decision:
    - I-Nominated, T-Libs
    - ^ Those get looked at in the triage meeting
  - If needs impl:
    - That needs to happen first, PRs welcome
  - When there are design decisions w/o consensus:
    - No solution. Wrangling consensus is the best option
    - Repinging is acceptable if no progress for a while, could apply I-Nominated
- If we feature requests that need design, impl, AND design:
  - How to we influence priority?


----------

**T-compiler**

[x] (1) fix: https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/42863 (== const generics?)
- This is semantically equivalent to const generics
- Likely will be fixed when (or after) const-generics lands on nightly


[x] (2) stabilize: `const fn`s that have trait bounds, e.g. `const fn new() -> Mutex where T: Send`
- https://github.com/rust-rfcs/const-eval/pull/8#issuecomment-460566779
- RFC is up: https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2632


[ ] (8) feature: assert in `const fn` produces a compiler error
- This requires `if` / `match` in `const fn` context to be useful. There was a related const qualification meeting on Monday
- RFC accepted
- needs impl work; no timeline
- big refactor right now that makes this easier to implement


[x] (11) fix: infinite loops with no side effect lower to an abort instruction - https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/28728
- Is there an existing workaround/discussion for this in C?
- Maybe only if the loop is in the return position/expression?
- Oli is going to make two -Z flags, for perf testing:
  - All loops
  - Loops in return position


[x] (12) feature: Language support for types with storage size of less than 1 byte - https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2581
- re-evaluate after const-generics is implemented
- Ask Varkor about this


[x] (13) feature: support for AVR - https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg/issues/3
- Are there outstanding rustc changes?
- nagisa: Not exactly a T-Compiler, more just LLVM. People can either:
  - Land changes in upstream LLVM
  - Provide a fork of reasonable quality (like emscripten) - might be an infra question
  - Forks are preferred over patches, otherwise things get stale


**T-libs**

[x] (3) stabilize: `core::mem::MaybeUninit` - https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/53491
- https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/53491#issuecomment-460089423
- likely to stabilize the parts of the API that the embedded community needs ahead of the rest


[x]  (4) std::io in libcore/liballoc - https://github.com/rust-lang-nursery/portability-wg/issues/12
- liballoc is unstable, a PR would be accepted to move here
- libcore is hard, because the trait has some methods that are really std-y, like read_to_vec(), something with a Box (possibly could change the enum?)
- We like the idea, the trait api’s provide some hard constraints unfortunately
- Terrible `#[cfg]` idea for problematic methods?
  - There is probably not precedence for this
  - “this is a terrible idea”
  - “not really mapping to a ‘standard’ library”
- Maybe make a different set of traits, where std is a supertrait of the core crate
  - CoreRead, CoreWrite?
- Maybe make an io2 module?
- can send a PR to land this in alloc as unstable API; will be discussed in the next libs meeting to see if there are any concern


[x] (7) stabilize: `core::arch::arm` - https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg/pull/184


[x] (15) math support in core - https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/issues/2505
- What is the good support for embedded?
  - Use libc’s libm?
  - Use pure rust libm?
  - Use LLVM’s intrinsics somehow?
  - Linking magic necessary in the compiler? Weak symbols?
  - Should we use the C implementation, if better optimized and available
- In `std`: Sometimes symbols are implemented in Rust, sometimes llvm intrinsics are called directly and sometimes routines from libgcc are used
  - LLVM will use instructions when the target has them, if it doesn’t, will fall back to inline software impl, OR will make a function call to libm, which might exist, and might have platform specific naming conventions
  - How do we verify if symbols are available?
- CI testing - make sure we have exercised all the math operations, check for linking or code size regressions
- If there are multiple alternatives we need an RFC
- ARM provides public domain memcpy, but (maybe) not math
- Intel provides some intrinsics under LGPL, we might be able to discuss other discussions
- If there’s a perfect solution we can get away with just a PR
- Embedded should propose solution(s) (probably CC korken89)
- Here is how memcpy/memset/etc is currently handled:
  - Provided by the “mem” feature on compiler-builtins
  - This feature is always enabled for SGX & wasm
  - This feature is enabled by rustbuild when the target does not support libstd (e.g. thumb* targets)
  - We could use the same logic for enabling math symbols in compiler-builtins.


[ ] (16) slimmer core::fmt
- 

**T-cargo**

- Theoretically the same process, but isn’t triaged often
- use the I-nominated tag + short comment on why’s nominated / important
- Regular meeting on Wednesdays at 15:00 US Central Time
- if it didn’t get triaged after a week ping



[x] (5) fix https://github.com/rust-lang/cargo/issues/5730 ("std" feature in build scripts break no_std crates)
- well aware of this issue
- fix is invasive; will be rolled in slowly
- Having an opt-in fix, but still lots of work
  - ehuss => Very interested in this problem


[x] (6) Stabilize RFC 2282 "Cargo profile dependencies" - https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/48683
- This one is getting stabilized soonish
- build profile for both build-dependencies and proc-macro dependencies
- if a crate is both a build-dependency and a dependency it will be treated as a different thing — it will be compiled twice


[x] (9) std-aware Cargo
- status: someone needs to lead the design work, impl work, stabilization process and bug fixing
- Stabilize custom target specification format? (Compiler team things)
  - Embedded might want to drive the design, little resistance expected — T-compiler to supervise
- Staged Versioning (may not be this order)
  - Version 1.0 could be just compile core and compiler builtins as it is for custom targets
    - How do we handle compiler_builtins or anything else that requires a C compiler?
      - Use the less optimized pure-rust version?
  - Version 1.1 could be compile core and compiler builtins with only whitelisted features (whitelist only applies to compiling w/ stable)
    - Old `core`/`std` features would need an explicit PR to whitelist, and must prove that we should “stabilize” these features
  - Version 1.2 could be + alloc or + std
  - Version 1.2.5 - Cargo syntax? How do I write this? How does Cargo understand this?
    - When do you not build std?
  - Version 1.3 could be “bring your own core/std” - not using rust-src
    - Note: If you need nightly features, you have to use a nightly compiler. BOOTSTRAP will not be set
    - We may want/need to use cargo’s `patch` mechanism to make this happen.
  - Version 1.4 could be using a custom `std` or `core` as a published crates.io crate
    - Still nightly only
  - Version 2.0 could be “get rid of core”, rolling std and core together, where today’s core is essentially `std` with `default-features = false`. This is likely to be a long way off.
- Note for today: We can fall back to “only works on nightly” for lots of things (at least until we are ready to stabilize), because this is already the constraint imposed by xargo.
  

**T-crates.io**

[x] (10) Improve crates.io or create separate site for no_std crates
    - e.g. search within a category
  

**T-lang**

[ ] (14) Stabilize async/await


----------
## **Embedded WG work session**
| Audience      | WG-embedded and those interested |
| ------------- | -------------------------------- |
| When          | Thursday 11:00 AM - 1:00 PM      |
| Where         | Snow                             |
| Meeting Style | Work                             |

**Deliverables**

[ ] TBD

**Agenda**

  -  (30 min)
  - https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg/issues/294
- svd2rust API (30 min)
  - https://github.com/rust-embedded/svd2rust/pull/270
  - https://github.com/rust-embedded/svd2rust/issues/213
- core::arch::arm / ACLE (30 min)
  - https://github.com/rust-lang-nursery/stdsimd/pull/557
- embedded-hal 1.0?
- TBD - basically any open issue that would benefit from synchronous discussion

**Minutes**

svd2rust API

- Motivation to simplify/modularize the generated code
  - Making variants of PAC crates disappear
    - like stm32-rs
    - pre-requirement: SVDs grouped in families
  - Faster compile times
  - Simplify HAL implementation development
- manage PACs in a central location
  - CI job to build a new version of the PAC when a new svd2rust release is out


- modularize code by family
  - provide tool to produce something like stm32-rs setup
  - may require work on the SVD files
- faster compile times
  - PR to add Cargo features
  - We should -Z time passes cargo
- [svd2rust RFC #1](https://paper.dropbox.com/doc/Svd2Rust-workspace-generation--AXGodS58N7Wz7IO01CS015Y3Ag-kNutsDH1uCmpuMYAyNZ0U) - Generate a cargo workspace for peripheral sub-crates
  - One crate per peripheral
  - One common crate for shared deps
  - One super crate with all items
  - To pick and choose peripherals: use subcrates
  - Don’t care? Just depend on the supercrate (✨📦)
  - Open questions/ Discussion
    - How can we be nicer to docs.rs? Crates.io?
      - Discoverability? Can we set priorities?
      - search would give you a bunch of crates (per peripheral)
      - TODO: Talk to crates.io team about list priorities

Idioms: Sharing / moving data between interrupts and main

- Mutex inherently not multi-core safe
  - How to make sure that no-one uses it in potential MC applications
  - Remove it? Make it useless by removing Sync?
- Changing the way interrupt handlers are declared
  - Moving the interrupt handler to a spawn function which uses some magic and a trampoline to set up. The “expensive” solution.
  - Making enable()/disable() unsafe to prevent arbitrary code doing nasty stuff and break
  - Make a function that consumes all interrupts to allow RTFM preventing users from using the new interrupt handler mechanisms breaking static analysis

core::arch::arm

- Plan to stabilise inline asm by doing magic string formatting stuff (not by coping with LLVM)
- Renaming asm to asm_llvm and asm will be the new Rust internal syntax
- core::arch::arm going to be stabilised
- Simon to check whether it can be fast tracked via precedence or needs an RFC

