# Embedded Working Group Meeting 2023-11-21

* [Coordination Repository]
* Meetings: Tuesday 8pm Europe/Berlin time
* [Join the Chat]
* Today's date: 2023-11-21
* [Nominated issues](https://github.com/search?q=org%3Arust-embedded+label%3Anominated+is%3Aopen&type=Issues)
* [IRC logs]

[Coordination Repository]: https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg
[Join the Chat]: https://matrix.to/#/#rust-embedded:matrix.org
[IRC logs]: https://libera.irclog.whitequark.org/rust-embedded/2023-11-21

## Attendance

Write your GH username or Matrix handle here!

* adamgreig
* cr1901
* greengenie
* dirbaio
* therealprof
* thejpster
* newAM
* jannic
* mabez
* emilgardis

## Agenda

* Announcements
    * svd2rust 0.30.3 released
    * new probe.rs website
    * postcard-rpc 0.2.0 released
* Embedded HAL
    * Release 1.0 on Dec 28th!
    * More fine-grained timing control? 
        * Lots of discussion about this point and whether it should result in any changes pre-1.0 to permit changing bus configuration per-device (which could include timing)
        * Consensus from the meeting is to probably not make any big changes pre-1.0 or delay 1.0
    * Adopt embedded-hal-mock and bring up-to-date?
        * Concern about maintenance overhead and potentially slowing development of embedded-hal
* Cortex-M PAC interface
* cargo-binutils release?
* Mutex trait: awaiting RFC to deprecate
* Book: tooling page update in works
* bors: ops docs need updating
* rustc targets: awaiting PR feedback
* no-std team?

## Last Week's Minutes

* Announcements
    * Welcome @jessebraham to risc-v and triage teams :tada: 
    * Rust 1.74 out Thursday
    * heapless 0.8 released :tada: 
* Cortex-M `__reset_vector symbol` https://github.com/rust-embedded/cortex-m/issues/495
    * @jamesmunns to open PR renaming it
* Cortex-m-interrupt-number
    * https://github.com/rust-embedded/cortex-m/pull/488
    * Should the crate be called cortex-m-pac-interface or similar,
      and use the crate as a place to document the other requirements
      on PACs?
* Mutex trait
    * Resources team to open RFC to deprecate and archive
* book: tooling page needs updating
    * Working through debug example
* bors: ops docs needs updating
* Rust target maintenance
    * Waiting for feedback on PR
* Should we propose a no-std team?
    * We discussed what such a team might do and what it would look like, but didn't reach any firm conclusions
    * Perhaps best to see how rust project feels about such a team?
    * To discuss further next week
* Embedded-hal 1.0 when?
    * Dec 28th, same day as Rust 1.75
