# Survey questions

This is the first Rust Embedded Working Group community survey. The goal is to gather feedback from users of Rust on Bare Metal or RTOS based embedded devices including microcontrollers.

## Your use of embedded Rust

### Where do you plan to use embedded Rust in the next 12 months?

Type: select all that apply (optional)

- Hobby or personal projects
- School or University projects
- Work or professional projects
- Not currently using embedded Rust, but have in the past for projects
- I have not used embedded Rust for any projects

### How long have you been using embedded Rust?

Type: select one (optional)

- Zero to one years
- One to two years
- Two to three years
- Three to four years
- Four to five years
- Five to six years
- More than six years

### If you are using embedded Rust for work, how many embedded devices per year is your company shipping using Rust?

Type: select one (optional)

- Unsure or unable to disclose
- Zero devices (only internal or non-production usage)
- 1 to 10 devices per year
- 10 to 100 devices per year
- 100 to 1000 devices per year
- 1000 to 10000 devices per year
- More than 10000 devices per year

### What architectures are you planning to use embedded Rust with in the next 12 months?

Type: select all that apply (optional)

- Arm Cortex-A
- Arm Cortex-R
- Arm Cortex-M
- RISC-V 32-bit
- RISC-V 64-bit
- Xtensa
- Other (open response)

### What chip families are you planning to use embedded Rust with in the next 12 months?

Type: select all that apply (optional)

- Apollo (Ambiq)
- ATSAM (Atmel/Microchip)
- ESP32 (Espressif Systems)
- LPC or i.MX RT (NXP)
- nRF (Nordic Semiconductor)
- RP2xxx (Raspberry Pi)
- STM32 (STMicroelectronics)
- TI (Texas Instruments)
- Other (open response)

### How do you typically use embedded Rust in your firmware projects?

Type: select all that apply (optional)

- Exclusively Rust for firmware
- Majority Rust for firmware, with some components or libraries in other languages (C/C++/Ada/Zig)
- Majority other languages (C/C++/Ada/Zig) for firmware, with some Rust components or libraries
- Exclusively other languages (C/C++/Ada/Zig) for firmware

## Typical tools and libraries used

### What frameworks or RTOSs are you using with embedded Rust?

Type: select all that apply (optional)

- Embassy
- ESP-IDF (`std` support on ESP32)
- Hubris OS
- RTIC
- Tock-OS
- Non-Rust based RTOSs (such as Zephyr, FreeRTOS, RIOT-OS, etc.)
- Other (open response)

### What tools do you use as part of your development process?

Type: select all that apply (optional)

- bindgen
- Cargo
- cbindgen
- cross
- defmt
- espflash
- probe-rs
- Rust Analyzer
- Other (open response)

### What are the most common crates or libraries you use in your embedded projects?

Type: free text (optional)

## Personal feedback

### What are your biggest complaints or blockers for using Rust in your embedded projects?

Type: free text (optional)

### How happy are you with using Rust for embedded projects?

Type: select one (optional)

- 1 (least happy)
- 2
- 3
- 4
- 5 (most happy)

### Is there anything else you would like the Embedded Working Group to know?

Type: free text (optional)
