ops/matrix.md, before:

# Matrix Operational Notes

The Rust Embedded Working Group uses the following Matrix room for our regular
meetings and community discussion:

[#rust-embedded:matrix.org](https://matrix.to/#/!BHcierreUuwCMxVqOf:matrix.org)

The document details the organisation of the room.

## Administration

See the [Matrix Moderation Guide](https://matrix.org/docs/guides/moderation)
for information on how Matrix administraton and permissions work.

WG [core team](https://github.com/orgs/rust-embedded/teams/core) members are
channel administrators (PL100), responsible for both maintaining the channel as
required and enforcing the WG's Code of Conduct.

* Can send messages
* Can invite users
* Can change room settings
* Kick and ban users in violation of the Code of Conduct
* Can remove messages in violation of the Code of Conduct
* Can notify everyone
* Can modify widgets
* Can change room avatar
* Can change main address for the room
* Can change history visibility
* Can change room name
* Can change other users' permissions
* Can change topic

All WG members may be channel moderators on request, responsible for enforcing
the WG's Code of Conduct.

* Can send messages
* Can invite users
* Kick and ban users in violation of the Code of Conduct
* Can remove messages in violation of the Code of Conduct
* Can notify everyone
* Can change topic

For a WG member to request to become a channel moderator (or a new core team
member to become an administrator), they should contact a core team member
[via GitHub](https://github.com/orgs/rust-embedded/teams/core) with their
Matrix username (e.g., `@username:matrix.org`) to be given moderator
permissions.

All other room members have no special powers:

* Can send messages
* Can invite users

## IRC Bridge

The Matrix room is bridged to an IRC channel, allowing IRC users to communicate
with users in the Matrix room.

Our IRC channel is `#rust-embedded` on [Freenode](https://freenode.net).

### IRC Administration

As with the Matrix room, core team members will be channel owners, and any WG
member may be an operator on request. Permissions are broadly equivalent to
Matrix room permissions:

Channel owners:
* Have all channel permissions
* Kick and ban users in violation of the Code of Conduct

Operators:
* Kick and ban users in violation of the Code of Conduct

It is anticipated that most administration will be performed on the Matrix
room, and as such there may not be regular presence of WG members in the IRC
channel.

Commit message:

Add disclaimer about the IRC bridge

ops/matrix.md, after:

# Matrix Operational Notes

The Rust Embedded Working Group uses the following Matrix room for our regular
meetings and community discussion:

[#rust-embedded:matrix.org](https://matrix.to/#/!BHcierreUuwCMxVqOf:matrix.org)

The document details the organisation of the room.

## Administration

See the [Matrix Moderation Guide](https://matrix.org/docs/guides/moderation)
for information on how Matrix administraton and permissions work.

WG [core team](https://github.com/orgs/rust-embedded/teams/core) members are
channel administrators (PL100), responsible for both maintaining the channel as
required and enforcing the WG's Code of Conduct.

* Can send messages
* Can invite users
* Can change room settings
* Kick and ban users in violation of the Code of Conduct
* Can remove messages in violation of the Code of Conduct
* Can notify everyone
* Can modify widgets
* Can change room avatar
* Can change main address for the room
* Can change history visibility
* Can change room name
* Can change other users' permissions
* Can change topic

All WG members may be channel moderators on request, responsible for enforcing
the WG's Code of Conduct.

* Can send messages
* Can invite users
* Kick and ban users in violation of the Code of Conduct
* Can remove messages in violation of the Code of Conduct
* Can notify everyone
* Can change topic

For a WG member to request to become a channel moderator (or a new core team
member to become an administrator), they should contact a core team member
[via GitHub](https://github.com/orgs/rust-embedded/teams/core) with their
Matrix username (e.g., `@username:matrix.org`) to be given moderator
permissions.

All other room members have no special powers:

* Can send messages
* Can invite users

## IRC Bridge

The Matrix room is bridged to an IRC channel, allowing IRC users to communicate
with users in the Matrix room. This is provided as a convenience to IRC users
and the WG may revisit the bridge in case it compromises the Matrix users experience.

Our IRC channel is `#rust-embedded` on [Freenode](https://freenode.net).

### IRC Administration

As with the Matrix room, core team members will be channel owners, and any WG
member may be an operator on request. Permissions are broadly equivalent to
Matrix room permissions:

Channel owners:
* Have all channel permissions
* Kick and ban users in violation of the Code of Conduct

Operators:
* Kick and ban users in violation of the Code of Conduct

It is anticipated that most administration will be performed on the Matrix
room, and as such there may not be regular presence of WG members in the IRC
channel.
