books/embedonomicon/README.md, before:

# The Embedonomicon

> Documentation about the low level magic that binds together embedded no_std programs

## Online Copies of this Book

At the moment, there are no official locations where this book is hosted. Instead, see below for instructions to render and use the book locally.

## Using

```
cargo install mdbook
cd books/embedonomicon
mdbook serve

# open a web browser, go to http://localhost:3000
```

## License

The Embedonomicon (this project) is distributed under the following licenses:

* The code samples and free-standing Cargo projects contained within this book are licensed under the terms of both the [MIT License] and the [Apache License v2.0].
* The written prose contained within this book is licensed under the terms of the Creative Commons [CC-BY-SA v4.0] license.

Copies of the licenses used by this project may also be found here:

* [MIT License Hosted]
* [Apache License v2.0 Hosted]
* [CC-BY-SA v4.0 Hosted]

[MIT License]: ./LICENSE-MIT
[Apache License v2.0]: ./LICENSE-APACHE
[CC-BY-SA v4.0]: ./LICENSE-CC-BY-SA
[MIT License Hosted]: https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT
[Apache License v2.0 Hosted]: http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
[CC-BY-SA v4.0 Hosted]: https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode

### Contribution

Unless you explicitly state otherwise, any contribution intentionally submitted for inclusion in the work by you, as defined in the Apache-2.0 license, shall be licensed as above, without any additional terms or conditions.

Commit message:

Added links to online hosting of books.

books/embedonomicon/README.md, after:

# The Embedonomicon

> Documentation about the low level magic that binds together embedded no_std programs

## Online Copies of this Book

An online version of this book can be found at:

* https://embedonomicon.rust-embedded.org
* https://embedonomicon.rust-embedded.com

These are temporary locations, with the eventual hosting to be at https://doc.rust-lang.org.


See below for instructions to render and use the book locally.

## Using

```
cargo install mdbook
cd books/embedonomicon
mdbook serve

# open a web browser, go to http://localhost:3000
```

## License

The Embedonomicon (this project) is distributed under the following licenses:

* The code samples and free-standing Cargo projects contained within this book are licensed under the terms of both the [MIT License] and the [Apache License v2.0].
* The written prose contained within this book is licensed under the terms of the Creative Commons [CC-BY-SA v4.0] license.

Copies of the licenses used by this project may also be found here:

* [MIT License Hosted]
* [Apache License v2.0 Hosted]
* [CC-BY-SA v4.0 Hosted]

[MIT License]: ./LICENSE-MIT
[Apache License v2.0]: ./LICENSE-APACHE
[CC-BY-SA v4.0]: ./LICENSE-CC-BY-SA
[MIT License Hosted]: https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT
[Apache License v2.0 Hosted]: http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
[CC-BY-SA v4.0 Hosted]: https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode

### Contribution

Unless you explicitly state otherwise, any contribution intentionally submitted for inclusion in the work by you, as defined in the Apache-2.0 license, shall be licensed as above, without any additional terms or conditions.
